---
sidebar_position: 3
---
AI Writer uses the following concepts:

**Recipe** - A recipe is a set of instructions or guidelines that describe how to prepare or make something, typically a dish of prepared food, but in our case: content. It serves as a roadmap, providing detailed steps that need to be followed to achieve the desired result.

**Options** - Options are the parameters that you can set for a recipe. They are the variables that you can change to get different results. For example, you can change the tone of voice, the length of the content, the number of paragraphs, and so on.

**Data** - Options are part of the data, but a recipe can contain instructions to enhance the data with addition information based on the options. The data will drive the prompt generation. 

**Prompt template** - A prompt template is the parameterized text that you can use to generate content. The templating language EJS is used to define the template. The template can contain variables, which are replaced with data values when generating content. EJS also supports control flow statements, such as if/else statements and loops.

**Prompt** - A prompt is a specific instance of a prompt template. It is the text that is used to generate content. It is the result of replacing the variables in the prompt template with data. The prompt is the input to the AI model.

**Model** - A model is a machine learning model that is used to generate content. It is trained on a large amount of data. The model is the core of AI Writer. It is the part that generates the content, also called a completion.

**Completion** - A completion is the result of the model generating content. It is the output of AI Writer. It is the content that is generated based on the prompt.

**Storage** - storage can contain content generated by AI Writer, or delivered by other processes. A parameter can point to content in storage. Initially AI Writer will support two types of content: text and JSON (data).

Another concept that we could use is the **cookbook**. The cookbook is the place where you can find all the recipes that you have created. It is also the place where you can create new recipes. The cookbook is the place where you can manage your recipes. The concept is not used in AI Writer, but it is a nice analogy. In the process of creating the final content, multiple recipes from the cookbook could be used. It is also possible to create a recipe that uses the output created by other recipes. This we could call a **recipe chain**. The concept of a recipe chain is not used as a core part in AI Writer, but could be easily accomplished by executing AI Writer multiple times from a script.




