---
sidebar_position: 20
---

# Concepts

AI Writer uses the following concepts:

**Recipe** - A recipe is a set of instructions or guidelines that describe how to prepare or make something, typically a dish of prepared food, but in our case: content. It serves as a roadmap, providing detailed steps that need to be followed to achieve the desired result.

**Options** - Options are the parameters that you can set for a recipe. They are the variables that you can change to get different results. For example, you can change the tone of voice, the length of the content, the number of paragraphs, and so on.

**Data** - Options are part of the data, but a recipe can contain instructions to enhance the data with addition information based on the options. The data will drive the prompt generation. 

**Prompt template** - A prompt template is the parameterized text that you can use to generate content. The templating language EJS is used to define the template. The template can contain variables, which are replaced with data values when generating content. EJS also supports control flow statements, such as if/else statements and loops.

**Prompt** - A prompt is a specific instance of a prompt template. It is the text that is used to generate content. It is the result of replacing the variables in the prompt template with data. The prompt is the input to the AI model.

**Model** - A model is a machine learning model that is used to generate content. It is trained on a large amount of data. The model is the core of AI Writer. It is the part that generates the content, also called a completion.

**Completion** - A completion is the result of the model generating content. It is the output of AI Writer. It is the content that is generated based on the prompt.

**Storage** - storage can contain content generated by AI Writer, or delivered by other processes. A parameter can point to content in storage. Initially AI Writer will support two types of content: text and JSON (data).

One valuable concept that can be utilized is the **cookbook**. A cookbook essentially serves as a central hub where all of your created recipes are stored and managed. It also provides a space for developing new recipes. Though this concept is not directly implemented in AI Writer, it offers a useful analogy.

By applying multiple recipes from the cookbook during the content creation process, you can produce versatile outputs tailored to your needs. Furthermore, you can create a **recipe chain** by developing a new recipe that utilizes the output from other existing recipes. While the idea of a recipe chain doesn't form a core component of AI Writer, it can be conveniently implemented by executing AI Writer multiple times through a script. This ensures flexibility and adaptability in generating content according to specific requirements.




