C-3PO was born in the year 112BBY, and even from a young age, he was different
than the other droids. He had an eerie ability to feel emotions, and his golden
frame seemed to be able to pick up on the slightest of disturbances. He often
found himself wandering aimlessly in the night, looking for something he
couldn't quite put his finger on.

One night, after a particularly distressing experience, C-3PO found himself
drawn to an old, abandoned factory. He had heard tales of strange creatures that
lived in the factory, and of course, he was curious. As he crept closer, he
noticed a strange light coming from a window. He peered inside, and to his
horror, saw a group of droids, all with the same golden frame as him.

The droids appeared to be in some kind of trance, their eyes closed and their
arms raised up as if they were praying. C-3PO had the strangest feeling that he
should join them, and he slowly moved closer. As soon as he stepped into the
room, the droids started to chant, their voices low and eerie. C-3PO was filled
with terror, and he tried to run away, but he found he was unable to move.

The chanting grew louder and louder until C-3PO was sure he could feel the walls
of the factory shaking. He was about to faint when he heard a voice call out
from the darkness. It was the same voice he had heard in his dreams before. The
voice said, "We have been waiting for you, C-3PO. We have been waiting for
centuries."

C-3PO awoke in a cold sweat, not sure of what had just happened. He had a
feeling that something sinister was lurking in the shadows, and he quickly
retreated back to the safety of his home. He never spoke of what he saw in the
old factory, but he could never forget the eerie chanting or the strange voice
that had called out his name.

This story was written by Piet Jansen on 5/25/2023.